Scenario 1: Two Processes(client , Server) present with in the same host communicate's with each other using a concept called IPC ( Inter Process Communication )
Scenario 2: Two Processes present in the different host. Computer Networks is responsible to provide entire Hardware/Software
the message goes from client & server

Depending upon various functionalities and grouping there are several referenece models. Few of then are
- ISO-OSI Model
- TCP/IP
- ATM
- X.25
- IEEE ( mainly deals with LAN technologies )

Application Layer - Computer Science students
Presentation Layer - Computer Science students
Session Layer - Computer Science students
Transport Layer - Computer Science students
Network Layer - Computer Science students - Complex Routing algorithms
Data Link Layer  - Electrical & Communation students   - Deals with both Hardware & software
Physical Link Layer - Electrical & Communation students - Deals with Only Hardware

ISO/OSI Layers

1. Physical Layer:
   Responsibilities: 
   a) It deals with Electrical, Mechanical, Functional & Procedural characteristics of physical links (Copper wire, 
      Optical Fibre, Wireless network)
      - The messages sent over Copper wire are converted into Electrical Signals
      - The messages sent over Optical Fibre are converted into Light
      - The messages sent over Wireless network are converted into EMV ( Electro Magnetic Waves )
   b) Deals with Transmission Modes: Wires/ph can be in any of the below tranmission modes
      - Simplex : Data Flows in one way between sender & receiver.
        e.g: Data flow from Antena to Televison is one way
      - Half Duplex Links: Data Flows from both sides between sender & receiver but not simultaneously
        e.g: Walkie-Takies used by Police...
      - Full Duplex Links: Both sender and receiver can send the data at the same time.
   c) Topologies: Means, how the various computers are connected to each other. 
      BUS, STAR, RING, MESH, HYBRID
   b) Encoding: Physical layer is responsible for converting Bits to Waves.
      a) Machester Encoding
      b) Differential Manchester Encoding
      Usually a bit is sent with 2 Voltages ( high - low ) across the link.
      Bit rate - number of bits transferred per second
      Baud rate - number of voltages transferred per second.
      Baudrate = 2 * Bitrate
2. DataLink Layer ( HOP - HOP ): It is divided into two parts 
   i)  LLC ( Logical Link Layer ) :
       Responsibilities:
       a) Error Control ( CRC , CheckSum ) : CRC is used here & CheckSum is used at TCP level
       b) Flow Control ( STOP & WAIT , GO-BACKN , SR ) : GO-BACKN is most commonly used.
   ii) MAC ( Medium Access Control )
       Responsibilities:
       a) Error Control
       b) Framing
       c) Access Control ( CSMA/CD used by Ethernet, Token Passing used by TokenRing )
       d) Physical Addressing
   Concept-wise there 2 kinds of addressing Physical & Logical & practically we have IP address & MAC address
   Physical Address: It is is unique with in the network and should be fixed/constant. We use MAC address as physical address,
   because, it is a Hardware Number printed on the ROM, inside NIC.
   Logical Address: It is globally unique across the globe. we usually use IP address as logical address, since it is
   divided into Network & Host, which is easy for routing the packet.
   
   ** Note: MAC address can also be used as logical address but it consists of 3 parts ( VendorID/ManufactureID, Date, 
            SerialNumber ), which is not easy for routing the packet 
   
   




